Questions:
when you choose maven or when freestyle project?



cd src
javac Main.java
java Main, then you will see:
abracadabra
abracadabra
abracadabra
abracadabra
abracadabra

Jenkins - it is user interface tools, that needs to be installed on server.
Devops are making installation
devops controll jenkins
qa is not taking control of that. you like making configuration using it.
I have worked with it in my team, im familiar with it, but usually the devops taking control of that.
I have not directly working with it, i know how it works, i know it's concepts,
i just tell the developers my link and they do connecting jenkin with it and that's it.


testing server - it is testing environment.

connect with a project.
run a project in a server
email if the project is successfully built


executable file - is a file, which is already compiled
executable file - file that can run a machine which code is ready to run
it contains machine code

jenkin_user
syntax123


JENKINS:

new item: - create a project (we call it a job)
write name of project
choose Maven project (or sometimes freestyle project)
build - version
(if we choose choice parameter: choice like runnerClasses, then you put different runners classes that u want to run,
in this case you go to COALS AND OPTIONS: WRITE $RunnersClasses
then you go to build with runnerclasses)


Source course management - choose Git
if its public - give url
private - give credentials

Branch -keep blank , it will pick your by default main branch

Build Triggers - Poll SCM (source course management)
(IT MEANS you GIVE A TIME,
5 stars - means every 1 minute, your project  will look to your git hub repository every 1 min.
Poll means - polling, checking, SCM -source course management, = CHECKING source course management,
check the github automatically, if it has some updates it build the project again)

Build Environment: usually don't choose anything
(Delete workspace before build starts : delete all data in project before new project creating)

Build: (usually don't choose)
(if u are like tester: Execute shell - command from
command window: echo "hello world")

Root pom: - pom.xml

Goals and options:(which particular runners class you want to run)
 write -
mvn test -Dtest=RunnerClass
clean install -Dtest=RunnerClass (choose clean install not mvn test)
Dtest - like flag, gives settings for test case
 means selecting particular runner class.


Post Steps: click on -> run regadless of build result.
Build setting:
Post-build Actions: (sometimes choose Cucumber reports
then you add after"**/" cucumber before .json) then click apply and save.
or choose: buil other projects
Projects to build: testersb14 (trigger build only if it is stable)




tu run my project click :
Build now





free style project

continius integration and deployment
you continiously integrate the code and contiously deploy it


i just tell the developers my link and they do connecting jenkin with it and that's it.